**Sguil** - cybersecurity analyst console in a special version of the Linux called Linux Security Onion.
**Security Onion** - an open source suite of tools that work together for network security analysis. 

**Network packer capture software** - A crucial tool for a SOC analyst as it makes it possible to observe and understand every detail of a network transaction. Wireshark is a popular packet capture tool.

**Malware analysis tool** - These tools allow analysts to safely run and observe malware execution without the risk of compromising the underlying system.

**Intrusion Detection Systems** - These tools are used for real-time traffic monitoring and inspection. If any aspect of the currently flowing traffic matches any of the established rules, a pre-defined action is taken.

**Firewalls** - This software is used to specify, based on pre-defined rules, whether traffic is allowed to enter or leave a network or device.

**Log managers** - Log files are used to record events. Because a network can generate a very large number of log entries, log manager software is employed to facilitate log monitoring.

**Security Information and event management (SIEM)** - SIEMs provide real-time analysis of alerts and log entries generated by network appliances such as IDSs and firewalls.

**Ticketing System** - Task ticket assignment, editing, and recording is done through a ticket management system. Security alerts are often assigned to analysts through a ticketing system.

**PenTesting** - a penetration test is the process of looking for vulnerabilities in a network or computer by attacking it.